## Why use Microsoft Entra B2B instead of federation?
With Microsoft Entra B2B, you don't take on the responsibility of managing and authenticating the credentials and identities of partners. Your partners can collaborate with you even if they don't have an IT department. For example, you can collaborate with a contractor who only has a personal or business email address and no identity management solution managed by an IT department.

Giving access to external users is much easier than in a federation. You don't need an AD administrator to create and manage external user accounts. Any authorized user can invite other users. A line manager could, for example, invite external users to collaborate with their team. When collaboration is no longer needed, you can easily remove these external users.

A federation is more complex. A federation is where you have a trust established with another organization, or a collection of domains, for shared access to a set of resources. You might be using an on-premises identity provider and authorization service like Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) that has an established trust with Microsoft Entra ID. To get access to resources, all users have to provide their credentials and successfully authenticate against the AD FS server. If you have someone trying to authenticate outside the internal network, you need to set up a web application proxy.

An on-premises federation with Microsoft Entra ID might be good if your organization wants all authentication to Azure resources to happen in the local environment. Administrators can implement more rigorous levels of access control, but this means that if your local environment is down, users can't access the Azure resources and services they need.

With a B2B collaboration, external teams get the required access to Azure resources and services with the appropriate permissions. There's no need for a federation and trust to be established, and authentication doesn't depend on an on-premises server. Authentication is done directly through Azure. Collaboration becomes simplified, and you don't have to worry about situations where users can't sign in because an on-premises directory isn't available.
